Add Tools for research post (#50)
rdjpalmer/website: src/posts/tools-for-research.md

---
layout: post
title: "Tools for research"
date: 2020-11-01
slug: "/tools-for-research"
description: >-
  Tools and integrations to level up your research.
---

[Back in August](https://rdjpalmer.com/week-33-2020#on-writing), the biggest gap in my writing was the depth of my ideas. I asserted that, while the topics were of interest, I needed to go deeper. And to go deeper, I needed to be more thorough. Which meant learning to research.

I’ve still plenty to work on, but I’ve made some progress. Here’s some of the tools and tactics I’m trying out.

> ## <a href="https://roamresearch.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Roam research</a> (or your favourite note taking app)

Author: ```suggestion
## Roam research (or your favourite note taking app)
```

Chris Sacca—one of the most successful venture capitalists ever—insists that <a href="https://twitter.com/sacca/status/1134128910004772869?s=20" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">note taking is a foundational skill of every successful person he knows</a>.

I can attest to the fact that since forming my own note taking and journaling habits, I'm far more confident in tackling complex subjects, and learn at a much faster rate. Note taking is one of the most important forms of <a href="https://rdjpalmer.com/week-39-2020-observation-is-my-superpower" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">observation</a>, which is a transformative skill in its own right.

> Roam itself helps you build on this through bi-directional linking, and an interface which gets out of your way and focuses you on exploring your thoughts. Don’t let my simple description fool you though, there’s way more to Roam than one novel feature.

Author: ```suggestion
<a href="https://roamresearch.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Roam Research</a> helps you build on this through bi-directional linking, and an interface which gets out of your way and focuses you on exploring your thoughts. Don’t let my simple description fool you though, there’s way more to Roam than one novel feature.
```

> It’s not to everyone’s tastes. It’s a little ugly and rough round the edges. Thankfully, Nesslabs is to the rescue again, with <a href="https://nesslabs.com/how-to-choose-the-right-note-taking-app" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">How to choose the right note taking app</a>.

Author: ```suggestion
It’s not to everyone’s tastes. It’s a little ugly and rough round the edges. Thankfully, Ness Labs is to the rescue, with <a href="https://nesslabs.com/how-to-choose-the-right-note-taking-app" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">How to choose the right note taking app</a>.
```

## Index cards as bookmarks

<a href="https://rdjpalmer.com/week-33-2020" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Index cards and post-it notes</a> have turned into one of my go to weapons on a daily basis. From taking notes to deciding immediate priorities, just getting something down on paper is far more useful than trying to keep it in your head.

> Next time you’re reading a physical book, replace your bookmark with an index card. As you make your way through the book, highlight passages in the book and mark down the page numbers on the card. Add commentary as you go.

Author: ```suggestion
Next time you’re reading a physical book, replace your bookmark with an index card. As you make your way through, highlight passages in the book and mark down the page numbers on the card. Add commentary as you go.
```

When you're done with that session, write them up in Roam to reference later.

If you’ve neat enough handwriting, you can skip the write up by using Google Lens. Take a picture of it, let Google Lens pick up on all the words, and copy it straight to your computer. Magic ✨

## Hypothes.is ￫ ReadWise ￫ Roam

The digital equivalent of the index card, <a href="https://web.hypothes.is/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Hypothes.is</a> let's you annotate and highlight almost any page on the web.

By default, it saves all your highlights and annotations to a public feed where other users can comment and discuss them with you.

> For me, on it's own isn't all that beneficial, but combine it with <a href="https://readwise.io/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">ReadWise</a> and you're on to a winner.

Author: ```suggestion
For me, it isn't all that useful on its own, but combine it with <a href="https://readwise.io/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">ReadWise</a> and you're on to a winner.
```

> ReadWise resurfaces your notes to you in a handy summary email every so often. Using a technique known as spaced repetition which is proven to help with recall.

Author: ```suggestion
ReadWise resurfaces your notes to you in a handy summary email every so often. Using a technique known as <a href="https://www.theguardian.com/education/2016/jan/23/spaced-repetition-a-hack-to-make-your-brain-store-information" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">spaced repetition</a> which is proven to help with recall.
```

> And the new Roam integration really levels the whole system up. Instead of keeping the notes to itself, ReadWise now puts your notes where they should be: in your note taking app.

Author: ```suggestion
And the new Roam integration levels the whole system up. Instead of keeping the notes to itself, ReadWise now puts your notes where they should be: in your note taking app.
```

## Instapaper ￫ ReadWise ￫ Roam

Hypothes.is is great for when you're already reading something. But there's always times where you perhaps don't have the time, or aren't ready to read the entire piece. <a href="https://www.instapaper.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Instapaper</a> solves this by saving the whole article for later.

> I've personally struggled to benefit from products like this before. I've turned Paper and Safari's built in "read it later" feature to graveyards for articles I never end up reading.

Author: ```suggestion
In the past, I've struggled to benefit from products like this. I've turned Paper and Safari's built in "read it later" feature to graveyards of articles I never end up reading, and won't ever return to.
```

> But in [setting out to create my own anti-library](https://rdjpalmer.com/week-39-2020-observation-is-my-superpower#applying-my-observations), along with ReadWise and it's Roam integration, suddenly I have a lot more incentive to make it work.

Author: ```suggestion
But in [building my own anti-library](https://rdjpalmer.com/week-39-2020-observation-is-my-superpower#applying-my-observations), along with ReadWise and it's Roam integration, suddenly I have a lot more incentive to make it work.
```

> One limitation is that ReadWise doesn't import links into Roam. It'll only import what you highlight. It's frustrating, as I'd rather have all my links saved in Roam. You can get around this by adding at least one note: the reason why you saved it in the first place.

Author: ```suggestion
One limitation is that ReadWise doesn't import links into Roam. It'll only import what you highlight. It's frustrating, as I'd rather have all my links saved in one place. You can get around this by adding at least one note. The reason why you saved it in the first place.
```

> ## <a href="https://www.keysearch.co/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">KeySearch</a>

Author: ```suggestion
## KeySearch
```

> Recommended by <a href="https://monicalent.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Monica Lent</a> in <a href="https://bloggingfordevs.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Blogging for Devs</a> (which I cannot recommend highly enough), KeySearch is a tool for doing keyword research for SEO.

Author: ```suggestion
Recommended by Monica Lent in <a href="https://bloggingfordevs.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Blogging for Devs</a> (which I cannot recommend highly enough), <a href="https://www.keysearch.co/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">KeySearch</a> is a tool for doing keyword research for SEO.
```

You can plug in terms you want to know more about, and it'll give you the search volume, cost-per-click and pay-per-click rates, along with a rough score with how competitive it thinks the term is.

It’s expensive as experiments go, at $17/month. But, KeySearch (and Monica's course) has been the gateway to me starting to understand SEO.

> ## <a href="https://answerthepublic.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Answer the public</a>

Author: ```suggestion
## <a href="https://answerthepublic.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">AnswerThePublic</a>
```

> Another recommendation from Monica. AnswerThePublic lets you plug in a topic, say "Blog Research" and find all the questions people are asking about it. Results for this particular example:

Author: ```suggestion
Another recommendation from Monica. <a href="https://answerthepublic.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">AnswerThePublic</a> lets you plug in a topic, say "Blog Research" and find all the questions people are asking about it. Results for this particular example:
```

- "How to research blog content"
- "How to research blog topics"
- "What is a research blog"

Combine these answers with some handy work on KeySearch, and you've got a nice starting point for some posts.

> ## <a href="https://www.connectedpapers.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Connected Papers</a>

Author: ```suggestion
## Connected Papers
```

Anne-Laure’s work on Ness Labs is always impressive. The vast majority is grounded in science. In fact, I'm unable to recall a single article that doesn't cite some form of paper.

> <a href="https://twitter.com/anthilemoon/status/1312452805324496896?s=20" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Recommended in a tweet</a>, Connected Papers could be summarised as the externalisation of the bi-directional link. It's a search engine to surface other relevant papers to the one you're already reading. Combine with Google Scholar (and the chancing upon papers in your other research) for a network of inspiration and references ready for use.

Author: ```suggestion
<a href="https://twitter.com/anthilemoon/status/1312452805324496896?s=20" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Recommended in a tweet</a>, <a href="https://www.connectedpapers.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Connected Papers</a> could be summarised as the externalisation of the bi-directional link. It's a search engine to surface other relevant papers to the one you're already reading. Combine with Google Scholar (and the chancing upon papers in your other research) for a network of inspiration and references ready for use.
```
